Jill Jones talking to Shirley Davis, continuation. So Shirley, when the Minera Limestone Quarry
closed, can you tell me a little bit about what happened next there?
Yes, it was closed for quite some time and there were a number of us in the village who
were quite concerned about what was going to happen in the line works, what the future
of it was going to be, because it was an area where many of us did walk, but it was becoming
very overgrown, we were finding it more and more difficult to get in and out of there.
And we heard via my husband actually, who was on the council at the time, that it was up
for sale. And as a result of this, a few of us got together. We got together in the City
Arms, which was a pub that was open at the time. And at that first meeting I was appointed
as the chair of a new group, which was looking into what we could do about the quarry, about
the line works. We then went for a brainstorming session, which was up in the cycle centre up
in Sandengla. Yes. And we formed a committee and from that committee we then decided that
we were going to do our level best to get it for the people of the community, the community
of Monera, for them to have it as a facility. Yes. For the whole area. Yes, as an outdoor,
general access. Yes. And many of the meetings went on in my house. Yes. Yes. It was open
house. We continued to meet. We struggled, we really, really struggled very hard trying
to get people to listen to us and to agree to us doing, having something done with it.
Yes. And it was only eventually when we managed to get the North Wales Wildlife Trust on board
with us that we were able to secure it for the people of the community and make it a facility
rather than what was becoming an eyesore and a problem. Yes. So we, we, I then stepped down
from being the, the chair. Yes. And it was taken. I've been a couple of chairmen after
that. Yes. But, um, I'm quite pleased to say that, um, as a result of, of the efforts that
the group made, it wasn't just me, but it was the group. Yes. The committee was really good
and hard working. Absolutely. Yes. And met on a regular basis and we, we managed eventually
to, to, to get the Wildlife Trust on board and, uh, with their help and what have you.
Yes. It's, it's now a good. It is. It's a good local facility. Yes. And, and hopefully it's
going to go on and be an even better facility, um, in, in the future. I think, I think it's
got such possibilities. It's such a, a brilliant area and it's such a large area. Yes. Um, that
we could do all sorts of things. Uh, I've still got lots of ideas of, of things that could be
done, but, um, but we've, we've met a lot of people. We've had a lot of important people
that have come up and looked at the area. Yes. Yes. Um, and have all said, you know,
what, what a wonderful area it is and what a wonderful, uh, thing that we should do, um,
that we were doing to, to actually try and save it for, for the community. Because there's
the industrial, archaeology and there's the general wildlife anyway. And, um, there's,
the nearness for the community. Yes. And even if they don't walk the mile and a half to
get there, so we need car parking space there, uh, they're still, they don't know how many
miles they walk once they're in. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yes. Yes. You know, it's, it's a place
of entertainment, it's a place of, of learning. Yes. It's a place of, well, education. It's
a place of, um, leisure. Yes. People just go there leisurely. They, they walk their dogs.
They do all sorts of things within it. And, uh, I think that we've, we've managed to do something
really worthwhile in, in, in ensuring that it's, uh, going to be kept in, hopefully, for
many, many years to come. Yes. It will be used by the, by the community. Yes. With local,
with local open access. Yes. And everyone. Yes. And I do, do meet people now when I'm up there,
uh, I do find that some of them now, we do have Welsh speaking people going up there quite
often. Going back years ago, most of the people that were up there were Welsh speakers. Yes.
Um, most of the quarry workers would have been speaking Welsh, singing Welsh on their way back,
they would be, um, yeah. But now, for a long time it's been a lot of English speaking people,
and now it seems to be going full circle. It's turning back. Absolutely. And we seem to be having
a lot of Welsh people up there and, uh, you know, taking more notice. We do have lots of
foreign people coming as well. Yes, we do. Yes. Uh, yeah. Yeah. So, I don't know that I can
extend that one more point. Well, that's it. So, thank you very much, Shirley. You're very
welcome. Very enjoyable to talk to you today and for you to come and meet us both. Oh, I've
enjoyed it too. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.